# -Resource-Allocation-and-Utilization-in-Hospitals.
Our project titled "Resource Allocation and Utilization in Hospitals: A Comprehensive Management System" is a software system that aims to improve the management of resources in hospitals. The system uses data structures to store and manipulate the data necessary for managing hospital resources, including Patient data.
The system is designed to address the challenges of managing resources in a hospital setting,where resources are often limited, and demand can be unpredictable. The system provides a comprehensive set of features to help hospital managers and staff to allocate resources more efficiently and effectively and keep a record of it.
Program Description and Data Structures: A Java program consists of several classes. The program simulates a hospital management system where patients can be registered, assigned beds, and allocated resources based on their requirements.
The Main class is the entry point of the program that contains the main method. It creates instances of other classes such as Hospital, Patient_Info, Bed, and Resource_Man to manage the patient's data and Resources.It gives the Patient data and shows the availableResources.The Hospital class has a method displayName that displays the name of the hospital when called.The Patient_Info class is responsible for managing patient information and here we have used Linked List to store Patient data. It has a Node class that stores information such as a patient's record number, name, age, gender, weight, blood group, and bed number. The
Addnode method adds a new patient node to the linked list and displays all the patient information after adding the new node. The DeleteNode method removes a patient node from the linked list based on the bed number.The Bed class simulates bed allocation for patients. The BedAllotment method assigns a bed number to the patient based on their record number.The Resource_Man class manages the allocation and deallocation of resources for patients.Here in this class we have used Array,Priority Queue ,ArrayList.Firstly we have displayed the Resources and their Quantity.Then the quantity of resources is stored in Array.When we allocate resources to a particular patient it will get added in the Priority Queue and quantity will get stored in ArrayList.The addRequirement method adds the resources required
by the patient, and the removeResource method removes the allocated resources when the patient is discharged. The computeSubTotal method calculates the total number of resources used by the patient. And once the resources are allocated to a patient and again we will display that how many resources we are now left with which helps for efficient resource management
